SOURCE: https://agritech.tnau.ac.in/farm_enterprises/Farm%20enterprises_%20Mushroom_Disease.html
============================================================

Home
|
About Us
|
Success Stories
|
Farmers Association
|
Farmers' Innovation
|
Publications
|
Contact
Farm Enterprises
:: Mushroom
Major Diseases of Mushroom
Fungal Diseases
Bacterial diseases
Viral diseases
1.Fungal Diseases
Dry Bubble
Verticillium fungicola
Muddy brown, often sunken spots on the       cap of the mushrooms
Greyishwhite moldy growth seen on pileus
Later stage mushroom becomes dry and       leathery
Initially infected one are not develop       or remain small
Main source of infection
Debris
Dust on floors of growing house
Spread
Water splashes on healthy mushroom
Sciarid and phorid flies over long       distance
Favorable temperature 28o c
Poor ventilation
High humidity
Management  of Dry Bubble
Pick and destroy infected mushroom to       prevent spread
Sanitary conditions in growth house
Lower the temperature to 14oc when       disease noticed
Use clean equipment
Control flies and mites
Bubble can destroy with salt
Management by  using salt
Use of clean pasteurized casing media
Properly maintained air filtering system.
Water early infection centers with formaldehyde
For protective measure use zineb
Apply chlorothalonil at casing or mix into  casing material
Dry  bubble in Oyster
False  Truffle
Diehliomyces microsporus
Competitor than a pathogen
Appears as cottony weft of mycelium on bed  surface
Wefts turn to dense small reddish  brown,wrinkled,stromatic bodies resemble   a truffle
Infected bed have peculiar disagreeable odour
Reduced yield at mycelia exist
Introduced through soil
Management
Good sanitation
Proper Pasteurization of casing material
Low temperature during spawn run
Wet Bubble
Mycogone  perniciosa
Malformed mushrooms with       swollen stipes
Reduced or deformed caps
Undifferentiated tissue becomes       necrotic and a wet, soft rot emit bad odor
An amber liquid appears on       infected mushrooms.
Mushrooms become brown in color
Bubbles may be as large as a       grapefruit.
The fungus is spread via       airborne dust and contaminated casing.
It is also a parasite of wild       mushrooms.
It produces two spore types,
one which is small and         water-dispersed like
Verticillium
,
second which is a large         resting spore capable of persisting for a long time in the environment
Control
Sanitation in growth house
Clean environment around          cultivation area
Incorporating          benzimidazoles in the casing.
Benomyl at the rate of 0.95          g/m2,
Carbendazim and          thiabendazole at the rate of 0.62 g/m2
Cobweb
Cladobotryum dendroides
White silky growth grows over surface of casing  soil
It climb up and cover mushrooms comes in it’s  path
Older mycelium changes from  silky to granular white
Infected mushroom become soft
Later engulfed by cottony ball of mycelia
Serious problem where year around growing is  practiced
Cobweb mold is darker than mycelium... almost  grey as compared to white.
Main source of infection is casing soil
A cottony mycelium grows over casing
the mycelium soon envelopes the mushroom with a  soft mildewy mycelium and causes a soft rot.
It is also a parasite of wild mushrooms.
Cobweb mold is favored by high humidity.
Management  of Cobweb
Identify disease symptoms       early, not only the web but also cap spotting.
Treat spotty infections with a       alcohol drenched paper towel
Cover infected areas with salt
Change from light peats to       heavy peat casing may encourage disease development, but heavy black peats       are not responsible for initial infections.
Heavier casing may require       increased water applications, therefore may encourage the spread and       development the disease.
Heavily infected 2nd or early       3rd breaks should be steamed off to reduce the spore load on the farm.
Control strategies include       lowering humidity and /or increasing air circulation
Increase hygiene of the       harvesting and watering department.
Judicious applications of       Benzimidazole fungicides should be made
Chlorothalonil should be       included in the fungicide application program
Common chemicals used  to control diseases in mushroom
Fungicide
Against Pathogen
Doze
Benomyl and Carbendazim
Dactylium, Mycogone,    Trichoderma, Verticillium
Mix 240 g/100m2
With casing or in water    @ 240g/200 l/100m2
Chlorothalonil
Mycogone, Verticillium
200 ml/200 l/100m2
1st spary 1 week after    casing & 2nd after 2 week
Prochloroz manganese
Dactylium, Mycogone,    Verticillium
300g/ 100 l/ 100 m2 for single spary
Or 113 g/100 l/100 m2    if 2 spray
Thiabendazole
Dactylium, Mycogone,    Verticillium
Mix 240 g/100m2
With casing or in water    @ 240g/200 l/100m2
Zineb
Dactylium, Mycogone,    Verticillium
350 g/ 100m2, (dust)    every week after casing.
1 kg/1000 l @ of 5    l/10m2 after casing & between flushes
2. Bacterial Diseases
Top
Bacterial  Spot/Pit /Brown Blotch
Pseudomonas tolaasii.
Pale yellow spots on the surface of the piles  later it turns to yellow
In Sevier case mushrooms are radially streaked
Damage at storage and transit
Source of contamination may be soil or water
High humidity and watery conditions are  favorable for disease
Vector: Tryoglyphid mite
Lesions on tissue that are pale yellow  initially, later become a golden yellow or rich chocolate brown.
Discoloration is superficial (not more than 2 to  3 mm)
Underlying tissue may appear to be water soaked  and grey.
Blotches appear in early button stage,
Appear on any age - even on harvested  refrigerated mushrooms
At favorable moisture conditions spots enlarge  and coalesce, sometimes covering entire cap
Mushroom stems can also be blemished  similarly
Typical spotting is observed at or near the edge  of mushroom caps wherever caps remain wet for a period of 4 to 6 hours or  longer after water has been applied
If very dry conditions occur after blotch has  developed, infected caps may crack radially as the mushroom expands
Casing and air-borne dust are primary source.
The bacterial pathogen is probably present in  most casing material, even after pasteurization.
Occurrence of disease associated with the size  of the bacterial population on the mushroom cap, rather than on the population  in the casing, which explains why a prolonged wet period on the cap precedes  disease occurrence.
Spread by splash, tools, flies and nematodes.
Moisture content of less than 62 percent at  spawning preconditions mushrooms to blotch infection.
Management
Sanitation
Lowering humidity
Watering with a 150 ppm chlorine solution (calcium       hypochlorite products are used since sodium hypochlorite products may burn       caps).
If the mushroom stays wet, however, chlorine has       little effect since the bacterial population reproduces at a rate that       neutralizes the effect of the oxidizing agent.
Mummy disease
Pseudomonas
spp.
The disease was first described in 1942 by CM Tucker       and JB Routien in the United         States
Fruit bodies have tilted caps,
Early veil breaking,
Base of the stem enlarged
Curved stalk
Tissue of the mushroom becomes
Spongy,
Dry and
Brown
Mummified appearance.
Rapid rate of spread through the bed, up to 30cm  (12 inches) daily.
Infected mushroom is tough and dry texture
Gritty texture appeared when cut.
Water-soaked appearance and cavities in the  mushroom tissue
Management
Dig a trench to separate the diseased area from  the healthy.
Dug around 2m (6-8ft) ahead of the advancing  disease and the trench itself to be several inches wide.
All compost and casing has to be removed from  the trench
Gap thoroughly disinfected.
If crop is growing in separate containers, the  usual advice is to isolate or dispose of them.
Good hygiene is strongly recommended.
3. Viral  Disease
Top
Virus (several)
Double-stranded RNA
Reduced cropping,
bare patches on the beds,
long-bent stalks with small caps,
Premature opening of mushrooms,
Stalks tapering towards the base of stalk,
Dying pinheads
Infected mycelium grows slowly in the beds and  fruiting bodies are not produced.
Infection of the crop at spawning lead to a  higher level of disease
Spread and source of infection  of virus
Infected mushroom spores
Mycelium from previous crops also survive in the       trays
Mushroom sheds can also release infected spores
Dust from around the farm may introduce infected       spores
Only 10 infected spores are required for a disease       outbreak.
Farm hygiene
Maintain 60oC temperature throughout the compost
Filter air and seal rooms properly to prevent spores       from entering during cool down phase of compost.
Clean equipments
Ensure workers have clean-spare clothes
Ensure absolute filters are fitted to spawn-run       buildings
Clean trays to prevent infection from old-infected       mycelia
Green moulds
Trichoderma koningii
T.viride
T.aggressivum f.sp.aggressivum
Dark green mould patches on casing spreading to  lesions on stems.
Control of  green mould
Sanitation and hygiene programme, especially  targeting post crop
Cover spots with sodium hypochlorite solution,  salt, lime or gypsum and lime mix.
Good insect and mite control
Personnel movement patterns further reduce the  spread of the disease.
chlorothalonil at casing or mix into casing  material 254 mL formulation per 100 m2 of production
Chlorothalonil is not effective against an  established infection but lowering the infection
Cinnamon Mould
Chromelosporium fulva
(
Peziza  ostrachoderma
)
The color of this mold ranges from yellow gold to  golden brown to cinnamon brown.
It grows rapidly in circular patches.
It is very common in soil, and flourishes on  damp wood.
Areas in compost overheated during spawn run may  be colonized.
Improperly conditioned compost will also support  growth,
It often occurs on sterilized soil.
Sexual fruiting bodies may appear several weeks  after the first appearance of the mold.
Spores are airborne
Pink Mold
Neurospora
spp.
Commonly to occasionally seen on agar and grain.
It is ubiquitous in nature, occurring on dung,  in soils and on decaying plant matter.
Neurospora
spores germinate more readily  at elevated temperatures.
The pink mold seen in mushroom culture is most  frequently
Neurospora sitophila
, a pernicious contaminant that is  difficult to eliminate.
All infected cultures should be removed as soon  as possible from the laboratory and destroyed.
A thorough cleaning of the laboratory is  absolutely necessary.
If contamination persists, remove all spawn and  start anew
Inky Cap
Coprinus spp.
These are evidence of free ammonia in the  compost.
Their delicate gray caps autodigest quickly.
Inky caps are indicators of nitrogen over  supplementation or a poorly managed Phase II compost.
If there is too much residual ammonia, Phase II  thermophilic microflora may be unable to convert all the ammonia into microbial  protein.
fungus is strongly cellulolytic
.
Home
|
About Us
|
Success Stories
|
Farmers Association
|
Publications
|
Contact Us
Â© 2014 TNAU. All Rights Reserved.